# Solar-Panel-Data-Classification

The classification of data is done in order to predict the power generation for next couple of days using different ML algorithms and in order to improve the efficiency of power generation by forecast analysis.

## Abstract
Solar energy cost and data analysis examines technology costs, location - specific competitive advantages, policy impacts on system financing, and  detailed  LCOE analysis. It also helps to assess  the performance and reliability of solar energy facilities, predict energy output, and increase situational awareness for utility system operators. Analysis plays an important role in soft costs reduction and advancing domestic manufacturing.
Solar power forecasting is the process of gathering and analysing data in order to predict solar power generation on various time horizons with the goal to mitigate the impact of solar intermittency. Solar power forecasts are used for efficient management of the electric grid and for power trading.
In this project, The analysis is done by keeping the main focus on the prediction of power generation for the next couple of days and to improve the efficiency of whole solar power plant. 
In order to solve the proposed system, first dataset is prepared and cleaned then ML algorithms are applied and predictions are made. After statistical analysis, results and conclusions are drawn.
<br>
Keywords: <br>
LCOE: levelled cost of energy<br>
ML : machine learning<br>
SPDC : solar power data classification<br>

## Introduction

The data has been gathered at two solar power plants in India over a 34 day period. It has two pairs of files - each pair has one power generation dataset and one sensor readings dataset. The power generation datasets are gathered at the inverter level - each inverter has multiple lines of solar panels attached to it. The sensor data is gathered at a plant level - single array of sensors optimally placed at the plant. Few areas of concern at the solar power plant are being solved then. 

## Dataset

The power generation datasets are gathered at the inverter level - each

inverter has multiple lines of solar panels attached to it.
DATE_TIME Date and time for each observation. Observations recorded at 15 minute intervals.
PLANT_ID Plant ID - this will be common for the entire file.
SOURCE_KEY Source key in this file stands for the inverter id
DC_POWER Amount of DC power generated by the inverter (source_key) in this 15 minute interval. Units - kW.
AC_POWER Amount of AC power generated by the inverter (source_key) in this 15 minute interval. Units - kW.
DAILY_YIELD Daily yield is a cumulative sum of power generated on that day, till that point in time.
TOTAL_YIELD This is the total yield for the inverter till that point in time.

The sensor data is gathered at a plant level - single array of sensors optimally placed at the plant.

DATE_TIME Date and time for each observation. Observations recorded at 15 minute intervals.
PLANT_ID Plant ID - this will be common for the entire file.
SOURCE_KEY Stands for the sensor panel id. This will be common for the entire file because there's only one sensor panel for the plant.
AMBIENT_TEMPERATURE This is the ambient temperature at the plant.
MODULE_TEMPERATURE There's a module (solar panel) attached to the sensor panel. This is the temperature reading for that module.
IRRADIATION Amount of irradiation for the 15 minute interval.
